---
title: Slater determinant
description: Configurable parameters for Slater determinant representation analysis
---

# Slater determinant

Let $\Psi_{\mathrm{SD}}$ be an $N_{\mathrm{e}}$-electron Slater determinant constructed from $N_{\mathrm{e}}$ occupied spin-orbitals $\chi_i(\mathbfit{x})$ written in terms of the composite spin-spatial coordinates $\mathbfit{x}$:

$$
    \Psi_{\mathrm{SD}} =
        \sqrt{N_{\mathrm{e}}!} \hat{\mathscr{A}}
        \left[ \prod_{i=1}^{N_{\mathrm{e}}} \chi_i(\mathbfit{x}_i) \right],
$$

where $\hat{\mathscr{A}}$ is the antisymmetriser in the symmetric group $\operatorname{Sym}(N_{\mathrm{e}})$ acting on the electron labels.
The Slater determinant $\Psi_{\mathrm{SD}}$ exists in some subspace of the $N_{\mathrm{e}}$-electron Hilbert space $\mathcal{H}_{N_{\mathrm{e}}}$ whilst the spin-orbitals $\chi_i(\mathbfit{x})$ each belong to some subspace of the one-electron Hilbert space $\mathcal{H}_{1}$.
QSym² is able to provide symmetry assignments for both the Slater determinant $\Psi_{\mathrm{SD}}$ and its constituting spin-orbitals $\chi_i(\mathbfit{x})$.
The mathematical details of this can be found in [Section 2.4.2 of the QSym² paper](../../about/authorship.md#publications).


## Requirements

### Basis overlap matrix

As explained in [Basics/Requirements/#Basis overlap matrix](basics.md/#basis-overlap-matrix), QSym² requires the overlap matrices of the bases chosen for (some subspaces of) $\mathcal{H}_{N_{\mathrm{e}}}$ and $\mathcal{H}_{1}$ in order to perform representation analysis on $\Psi_{\mathrm{SD}}$ and $\chi_i(\mathbfit{x})$, respectively.
As it turns out, since $\Psi_{\mathrm{SD}}$ is constructed from $\chi_i(\mathbfit{x})$, QSym² only requires the overlap matrix for the basis functions on $\mathcal{H}_{1}$ with respect to which the spin-orbitals $\chi_i(\mathbfit{x})$ are defined.
These basis functions are typically Gaussian atomic orbitals, and most, if not all, quantum-chemistry packages compute their overlaps as part of their inner working.
It is therefore more convenient to retrieve the atomic-orbital overlap matrix $\mathbfit{S}_{\mathcal{H}_{1}}$ (also written $\mathbfit{S}_{\mathrm{AO}}$) from quantum-chemistry packages whenever possible.
The ways in which $\mathbfit{S}_{\mathrm{AO}}$ can be read in by QSym² will be described below.

### Atomic-orbital basis angular order

As bases for $\mathcal{H}_{1}$ almost invariably consist of Gaussian atomic orbitals, QSym² requires information about their angular momenta and ordering conventions as described in [Basics/Requirements/#Atomic-orbital basis angular order](basics.md/#atomic-orbital-basis-angular-order).
Whenever possible, QSym² will attempt to construct the basis angular order information from available data, but if this cannot be done, then the required information must be provided manually (see [Basics/Requirements/#Atomic-orbital basis angular order](basics.md/#atomic-orbital-basis-angular-order) for details).


## Parameters

=== "Command-line interface"
    === "Source: Q-Chem HDF5 archive"
        ```yaml
        analysis_targets:
          - !SlaterDeterminant #(1)!
            source: !QChemArchive #(2)!
              path: path/to/qchem/qarchive.h5 #(3)!
            control: #(4)!
              # Thresholds
              linear_independence_threshold: 1e-7 #(5)!
              integrality_threshold: 1e-7 #(6)!
              eigenvalue_comparison_mode: Modulus #(7)!
              # Analysis options
              use_magnetic_group: null #(8)!
              use_double_group: false #(9)!
              symmetry_transformation_kind: Spatial #(10)!
              infinite_order_to_finite: null #(11)!
              # Other options
              write_character_table: Symbolic #(12)!
              write_overlap_eigenvalues: true #(13)!
              analyse_mo_symmetries: true #(14)!
              analyse_mo_mirror_parities: false #(15)!
              analyse_density_symmetries: false #(16)!
        ```

        1. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies a Slater determinant analysis target.
        2. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies that the Slater determinant(s) to be analysed shall be retrieved from a Q-Chem HDF5 archive file.
        This file can be generated by running Q-Chem 5.4 or later with the `-save` option and located in the job scratch directory.
        This file may contain multiple Slater determinants such as those arising from multiple iterations of a geometry optimisation job, or from multiple jobs in a single Q-Chem run.
        3. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies the path to the Q-Chem HDF5 archive file to be analysed.
        4. :fontawesome-solid-users: This YAML dictionary contains all control earameters for the symmetry analysis of Slater determinants.
        5. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies a floating-point value for the linear independence threshold $\lambda^{\mathrm{thresh}}_{\mathbfit{S}}$.
        For more information, see [Basics/#Thresholds](basics.md/#thresholds).
        </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `1e-7`.
        6. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies a floating-point value for the integrality threshold $\lambda^{\mathrm{thresh}}_{\mathrm{int}}$.
        For more information, see [Basics/#Thresholds](basics.md/#thresholds).
        </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `1e-7`.
        7. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies the threshold comparison mode for the eigenvalues of the orbit overlap matrix $\mathbfit{S}$. The possible options are:
            - `Real`: this specifies the *real* comparison mode where the real parts of the eigenvalues are compared against the threshold,
            - `Modulus`: this specifies the *modulus* comparison mode where the absolute values of the eigenvalues are compared against the threshold.
        </li>For more information, see [Basics/#Thresholds](basics.md/#thresholds).
        </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `Modulus`.
        8. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies whether magnetic groups, if present, shall be used for symmetry analysis. The possible options are:
            - `null`: this specifies choice 1 of [Basics/Analysis options/#Magnetic groups](basics.md/#magnetic-groups) &mdash; use the irreducible representations of the unitary group $\mathcal{G}$,
            - `Representation`: this specifies choice 2 of [Basics/Analysis options/#Magnetic groups](basics.md/#magnetic-groups) &mdash; use the irreducible representations of the magnetic group $\mathcal{M}$, if $\mathcal{M}$ is available,
            - `Corepresentation`: this specifies choice 3 of [Basics/Analysis options/#Magnetic groups](basics.md/#magnetic-groups) &mdash; use the irreducible corepresentations of the magnetic group $\mathcal{M}$, if $\mathcal{M}$ is available.
        </li>For more information, see [Basics/Analysis options/#Magnetic groups](basics.md/#magnetic-groups).
        </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `null`.
        9. :fontawesome-solid-users: This is a boolean specifying if double groups shall be used for symmetry analysis. The possible options are:
            - `false`: use only conventional irreducible representations or corepresentations of $\mathcal{G}$,
            - `true`: use projective irreducible representations or corepresentations of $\mathcal{G}$ obtainable via its double cover $\mathcal{G}^*$.
        </li>For more information, see [Basics/Analysis options/#Double groups](basics.md/#double-groups).
        </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `false`.
        10. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies the kind of symmetry transformations to be applied to generate the orbit for symmetry analysis.
        The possible options are:
            - `Spatial`: spatial transformation only,
            - `Spin`: spin transformation only,
            - `SpinSpatial`: coupled spin and spatial transformations.
        </li>For more information, see [Basics/Analysis options/#Transformation kinds](basics.md/#transformation-kinds).
        </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `Spatial`.
        11. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies the finite order $n$ to which all infinite-order symmetry elements, if any, are restricted. The possible options are:
            - `null`: do not restrict infinite-order symmetry elements to finite order,
            - a positive integer value: restrict all infinite-order symmetry elements to this finite order (this will be ignored if the system has no infinite-order symmetry elements).
        </li>For more information, see [Basics/Analysis options/#Infinite-order symmetry elements](basics.md/#infinite-order-symmetry-elements).
        </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `null`.
        12. :fontawesome-solid-users: This indicates if the character table of the prevailing symmetry group is to be printed in the output.
        The possible options are:
            - `null`: do not print character tables,
            - `Symbolic`: print character tables symbolically,
            - `Numerical`: print character tables numerically.
        </li></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `Symbolic`.
        13. :fontawesome-solid-users: This boolean indicates if the eigenspectrum of the overlap matrix for the Slater determinant orbit should be printed out.
        </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `true`.
        14. :fontawesome-solid-users: This boolean indicates if the constituting molecular orbitals (MOs) are also symmetry-analysed.
        </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `true`.
        15. :fontawesome-solid-users: This boolean indicates if MO mirror parities (*i.e.* parities w.r.t. any mirror planes present in the system) are to be analysed alongside MO symmetries.
        </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `false`.
        16. :fontawesome-solid-users: This boolean indicates if density symmetries are to be analysed alongside wavefunction symmetries.
        </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `false`.


=== "Python"
    ```python
    from qsym2 import (
        rep_analyse_slater_determinant,
        SymmetryTransformationKind, #(1)!
    )

    rep_analyse_slater_determinant( #(2)!
        ...,
        symmetry_transformation_kind=SymmetryTransformationKind.Spatial, #(3)!
    )
    ```

    1. :fontawesome-solid-laptop-code: This is a Python-exposed Rust enum, [`SymmetryTransformationKind`](https://qsym2.dev/api/qsym2/symmetry/symmetry_transformation/enum.SymmetryTransformationKind.html), for indicating the kind of symmetry transformation to be applied on the target.
    2. :fontawesome-solid-users: This is just an example analysis driver function in Python. The choices for symmetry transformation kinds can be specified in any analysis driver function.
    3. :fontawesome-solid-users: The possible options are:
        - `SymmetryTransformationKind.Spatial`: spatial transformation only,
        - `SymmetryTransformationKind.Spin`: spin transformation only,
        - `SymmetryTransformationKind.SpinSpatial`: coupled spin and spatial transformations
