---
title: Vibrational coordinates
description: Configurable parameters for vibrational coordinate representation analysis
---

# Vibrational coordinates

Let $\mathbfit{Q}_i$ be the $i$-th vibrational mode of a molecule consisting of $N_{\mathrm{n}}$ nuclei.
The vector $\mathbfit{Q}_i$ contains $3N_{\mathrm{n}}$ elements:

$$
    \mathbfit{Q}_i = \begin{pmatrix}
        Q_i^{1x}\\
        Q_i^{1y}\\
        Q_i^{1z}\\
        Q_i^{2x}\\
        Q_i^{2y}\\
        Q_i^{2z}\\
        \vdots
    \end{pmatrix},
$$

where $Q_i^{A\alpha}$ gives the $\alpha$ Cartesian component of the vibrational coordinates on nucleus $A$.
The components of $\mathbfit{Q}_i$ may or may not be mass-weighted &mdash; this does not affect the ability of QSym² to characterise its symmetry.

## Requirements

### Basis overlap matrix

The vibrational modes $\mathbfit{Q}_i$ are implicitly described with respect to a basis consisting of $(\mathbfit{i}_A, \mathbfit{j}_A, \mathbfit{k}_A)$ triads centred on the nuclei $A$ in the molecule, where the unit vectors $\mathbfit{i}_A$, $\mathbfit{j}_A$, and $\mathbfit{k}_A$ are parallel to the space-fixed $x$-, $y$-, and $z$-axes, respectively.
The overlap matrix $\mathbfit{S}$ in this basis is simply the identity matrix $\mathbfit{I}_{3N_{\mathrm{n}}}$ since the basis vectors are orthonormal and/or non-overlapping.
Therefore, no additional basis overlap matrices are required to be supplied to QSym² for symmetry analysis.

### Atomic-orbital basis angular order

As the basis in which the vibrational modes $\mathbfit{Q}_i$ are defined does not contain atomic orbitals, no basis angular order information is required.

## Parameters

At the moment, QSym² offers two main ways to perform symmetry analysis for vibrational modes. They are:

- via the command-line interface reading in data from a Q-Chem HDF5 archive file,
- via the Python library API reading in data from Python data structures.

More methods might become possible in the future. The parameter specifications for the two existing methods are shown below.

=== "Command-line interface"
    === "Source: Q-Chem HDF5 archive"
        ```yaml
        analysis_targets:
          - !VibrationalCoordinates #(1)!
            source: !QChemArchive #(2)!
              path: path/to/qchem/qarchive.h5 #(3)!
            control: #(4)!
              # Thresholds
              integrality_threshold: 1e-7 #(5)!
              linear_independence_threshold: 1e-7 #(6)!
              eigenvalue_comparison_mode: Modulus #(7)!
              # Analysis options
              use_magnetic_group: null #(8)!
              use_double_group: false #(9)!
              symmetry_transformation_kind: Spatial #(10)!
              infinite_order_to_finite: null #(11)!
              # Other options
              write_character_table: Symbolic #(12)!
        ```

        1. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies a vibrational coordinate collection analysis target.
        2. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies that the collection of vibrational coordinates to be analysed shall be retrieved from a Q-Chem HDF5 archive file.
        This file can be generated by running a frequency analysis job in Q-Chem 5.4 or later with the `-save` option and located in the job scratch directory.
        3. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies the path to the Q-Chem HDF5 archive file to be analysed.
        4. :fontawesome-solid-users: This YAML dictionary contains all control parameters for the symmetry analysis of vibrational coordinates.
        5. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies a floating-point value for the linear independence threshold $\lambda^{\mathrm{thresh}}_{\mathbfit{S}}$.
        For more information, see [Basics/#Thresholds](basics.md/#thresholds).
        </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `1e-7`.
        6. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies a floating-point value for the integrality threshold $\lambda^{\mathrm{thresh}}_{\mathrm{int}}$.
        For more information, see [Basics/#Thresholds](basics.md/#thresholds).
        </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `1e-7`.
        7. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies the threshold comparison mode for the eigenvalues of the orbit overlap matrix $\mathbfit{S}$. The possible options are:
            - `Real`: this specifies the *real* comparison mode where the real parts of the eigenvalues are compared against the threshold,
            - `Modulus`: this specifies the *modulus* comparison mode where the absolute values of the eigenvalues are compared against the threshold.
        </li>For more information, see [Basics/#Thresholds](basics.md/#thresholds).
        </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `Modulus`.
        8. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies whether magnetic groups, if present, shall be used for symmetry analysis. The possible options are:
            - `null`: this specifies choice 1 of [Basics/Analysis options/#Magnetic groups](basics.md/#magnetic-groups) &mdash; use the irreducible representations of the unitary group $\mathcal{G}$,
            - `Representation`: this specifies choice 2 of [Basics/Analysis options/#Magnetic groups](basics.md/#magnetic-groups) &mdash; use the irreducible representations of the magnetic group $\mathcal{M}$, if $\mathcal{M}$ is available,
            - `Corepresentation`: this specifies choice 3 of [Basics/Analysis options/#Magnetic groups](basics.md/#magnetic-groups) &mdash; use the irreducible corepresentations of the magnetic group $\mathcal{M}$, if $\mathcal{M}$ is available.
        </li>For more information, see [Basics/Analysis options/#Magnetic groups](basics.md/#magnetic-groups).
        </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `null`.
        9. :fontawesome-solid-users: This is a boolean specifying if double groups shall be used for symmetry analysis. The possible options are:
            - `false`: use only conventional irreducible representations or corepresentations of $\mathcal{G}$,
            - `true`: use projective irreducible representations or corepresentations of $\mathcal{G}$ obtainable via its double cover $\mathcal{G}^*$.
        </li>For more information, see [Basics/Analysis options/#Double groups](basics.md/#double-groups).
        </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `false`.
        10. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies the kind of symmetry transformations to be applied to generate the orbit for symmetry analysis.
        The possible options are:
            - `Spatial`: spatial transformation only,
            - `Spin`: spin transformation only,
            - `SpinSpatial`: coupled spin and spatial transformations.
        </li>For more information, see [Basics/Analysis options/#Transformation kinds](basics.md/#transformation-kinds).
        </br></br>However, as vibrational coordinates are spinless quantities, spin transformations have no effects.
        </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `Spatial`.
        11. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies the finite order $n$ to which all infinite-order symmetry elements, if any, are restricted. The possible options are:
            - `null`: do not restrict infinite-order symmetry elements to finite order,
            - a positive integer value: restrict all infinite-order symmetry elements to this finite order (this will be ignored if the system has no infinite-order symmetry elements).
        </li>For more information, see [Basics/Analysis options/#Infinite-order symmetry elements](basics.md/#infinite-order-symmetry-elements).
        </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `null`.
        12. :fontawesome-solid-users: This indicates if the character table of the prevailing symmetry group is to be printed in the output.
        The possible options are:
            - `null`: do not print character tables,
            - `Symbolic`: print character tables symbolically,
            - `Numerical`: print character tables numerically.
        </li></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `Symbolic`.


=== "Python"
    ```python
    from qsym2 import (
        rep_analyse_slater_determinant,
        EigenvalueComparisonMode, #(1)!
        MagneticSymmetryAnalysisKind, #(2)!
        SymmetryTransformationKind, #(3)!
        PySpinConstraint, #(4)!
        PySlaterDeterminantReal,
        PySlaterDeterminantComplex,
    )

    ca = np.array([ #(5)!
        [+1.000, +0.000],
        [+0.000, +0.707],
        [+0.000, +0.707],
        ...
    ])
    cb = np.array([
        [+0.000, +0.707],
        [+1.000, +0.000],
        [+0.000, -0.707],
        ...
    ])
    
    occa = np.array([1.0, 1.0]) #(6)!
    occb = np.array([1.0, 0.0])

    ea = np.array([-0.51, -0.38]) #(7)!
    eb = np.array([-0.50, +0.02])

    pydet = PySlaterDeterminantReal( #(8)!
        spin_constraint=PySpinConstraint.Unrestricted,
        complex_symmetric=False,
        coefficients=[ca, cb],
        occupations=[occa, occb],
        threshold=1e-7, #(9)!
        mo_energies=[ea, eb], #(10)!
        energy=-1.30, #(11)!
    )

    rep_analyse_slater_determinant( #(12)!
        # Data
        inp_sym=f"mol", #(13)!
        pydet=pydet, #(14)!
        pybao=pybao, #(15)!
        sao_spatial=sao_spatial, #(16)!
        sao_spatial_4c=None, #(17)!
        # Thresholds
        linear_independence_threshold=1e-7, #(18)!
        integrality_threshold=1e-7, #(19)!
        eigenvalue_comparison_mode=EigenvalueComparisonMode.Modulus, #(20)!
        # Analysis options
        use_magnetic_group=None, #(21)!
        use_double_group=False, #(22)!
        symmetry_transformation_kind=SymmetryTransformationKind.Spatial, #(23)!
        infinite_order_to_finite=None, #(24)!
        # Other options
        write_character_table=True, #(25)!
        write_overlap_eigenvalues=True, #(29)!
        analyse_mo_symmetries=True, #(30)!
        analyse_mo_mirror_parities=False, #(31)!
        analyse_density_symmetries=False, #(32)!
    )
    ```

    1. :fontawesome-solid-laptop-code: This is a Python-exposed Rust enum, [`EigenvalueComparisonMode`](https://qsym2.dev/api/qsym2/analysis/enum.EigenvalueComparisonMode.html), for indicating the mode of eigenvalue comparison. See [Basics/Thresholds/Linear independence threshold/#Comparison mode](basics.md/#comparison-mode) for further information.
    2. :fontawesome-solid-laptop-code: This is a Python-exposed Rust enum, [`MagneticSymmetryAnalysisKind`](https://qsym2.dev/api/qsym2/drivers/representation_analysis/enum.MagneticSymmetryAnalysisKind.html), for indicating the type of magnetic symmetry to be used for symmetry analysis. See [Basics/Analysis options/#Magnetic groups](basics.md/#magnetic-groups) for further information.
    3. :fontawesome-solid-laptop-code: This is a Python-exposed Rust enum, [`SymmetryTransformationKind`](https://qsym2.dev/api/qsym2/symmetry/symmetry_transformation/enum.SymmetryTransformationKind.html), for indicating the kind of symmetry transformation to be applied on the target. See [Basics/Analysis options/#Transformation kinds](basics.md/#transformation-kinds) for further information.
    4. :fontawesome-solid-laptop-code: This is a Python-exposed Rust enum, [`PySpinConstraint`](https://qsym2.dev/api/qsym2/bindings/python/integrals/enum.PySpinConstraint.html), for indicating the spin constraint applicable to the Slater determinant. In the Python API, only two spin spaces arranged in decreasing-$m_s$ order are permitted because Python enums do not support associated values.
    5. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies a coefficient matrix for one spin space, which is a $N_{\mathrm{bas}} \times N_{\mathrm{MO}}$ `numpy` array. The number of basis functions, $N_{\mathrm{bas}}$, depends on the underlying spin constraint: for *generalised* spin constraint, this is twice the number of spatial basis functions, whereas for *restricted* and *unrestricted* spin constraints, this is the same as the number of spatial basis functions. Each column in the array specifies a molecular orbital which can be occupied or virtual as specified by the occupation numbers.
    6. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies an occupation number vector for one spin space, which is a one-dimensional `numpy` array of size $N_{\mathrm{MO}}$. Each value in this array gives the occupation number for the corresponding molecular orbital. Fractional values are allowed, but only when occupation numbers are either $0$ or $1$ can the Slater determinant symmetry be well-defined (otherwise the collection of fractionally occupied molecular orbitals does not actually form a single-determinantal wavefunction).
    7. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies an optional orbital energy vector for one spin space, which is a one-dimensional `numpy` array of size $N_{\mathrm{MO}}$. Each value in this array gives the orbital energy for the corresponding molecular orbital.
    8. :fontawesome-solid-users: [`PySlaterDeterminantReal`](https://qsym2.dev/api/qsym2/bindings/python/representation_analysis/slater_determinant/struct.PySlaterDeterminantReal.html) constructs a *real-valued* Slater determinant object. If a *complex-valued* Slater determinant is required instead, use [`PySlaterDeterminantComplex`](https://qsym2.dev/api/qsym2/bindings/python/representation_analysis/slater_determinant/struct.PySlaterDeterminantComplex.html).
    9. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies a threshold for comparing Slater determinants. This is of no consequence for symmetry analysis.
    10. :fontawesome-solid-users: This is optional.
    11. :fontawesome-solid-users: This is optional.
    12. :fontawesome-solid-users: This is the Python driver function for representation analysis of Slater determinants.
    </br></br>:fontawesome-solid-laptop-code: This is a Python-exposed Rust function, [`rep_analyse_slater_determinant`](https://qsym2.dev/api/qsym2/bindings/python/representation_analysis/slater_determinant/fn.rep_analyse_slater_determinant.html). See the API documentation for this function for more details.
    13. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies the path to the `.qsym2.sym` file that contains the serialised results of the symmetry-group detection (see the documentation for the `out_sym` parameter of the Python [`detect_symmetry_group`](https://qsym2.dev/api/qsym2/bindings/python/symmetry_group_detection/fn.detect_symmetry_group.html) function in [Symmetry-group detection/#Parameters](../symmetry-group-detection.md/#parameters)). This file should have been generated by the [`detect_symmetry_group`](https://qsym2.dev/api/qsym2/bindings/python/symmetry_group_detection/fn.detect_symmetry_group.html) function on the underlying molecular system prior to representation analysis.
    </br></br>This name does not need to contain the `.qsym2.sym` extension. 
    </br></br>The symmetry results in this file will be used to construct the symmetry group $\mathcal{G}$ to be used in the subsequent representation analysis.
    14. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies the Slater determinant to be symmetry-analysed.
    15. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies the basis angular order information for the underlying basis. See [Basics/Requirements/#Atomic-orbital basis angular order](basics.md/#atomic-orbital-basis-angular-order) for details of how to specify this.
    16. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies the two-centre atomic-orbital spatial overlap matrix as a two-dimensional `numpy` array.
    17. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies the four-centre atomic-orbital spatial overlap matrix as a four-dimensional `numpy` array.
    </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `None`.
    18. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies a floating-point value for the linear independence threshold $\lambda^{\mathrm{thresh}}_{\mathbfit{S}}$.
    For more information, see [Basics/#Thresholds](basics.md/#thresholds).
    19. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies a floating-point value for the integrality threshold $\lambda^{\mathrm{thresh}}_{\mathrm{int}}$.
    For more information, see [Basics/#Thresholds](basics.md/#thresholds).
    20. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies the threshold comparison mode for the eigenvalues of the orbit overlap matrix $\mathbfit{S}$. The possible options are:
        - `EigenvalueComparisonMode.Real`: this specifies the *real* comparison mode where the real parts of the eigenvalues are compared against the threshold,
        - `EigenvalueComparisonMode.Modulus`: this specifies the *modulus* comparison mode where the absolute values of the eigenvalues are compared against the threshold.
    </li>For more information, see [Basics/#Thresholds](basics.md/#thresholds).
    21. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies whether magnetic groups, if present, shall be used for symmetry analysis. The possible options are:
        - `None`: this specifies choice 1 of [Basics/Analysis options/#Magnetic groups](basics.md/#magnetic-groups) &mdash; use the irreducible representations of the unitary group $\mathcal{G}$,
        - `MagneticSymmetryAnalysisKind.Representation`: this specifies choice 2 of [Basics/Analysis options/#Magnetic groups](basics.md/#magnetic-groups) &mdash; use the irreducible representations of the magnetic group $\mathcal{M}$, if $\mathcal{M}$ is available,
        - `MagneticSymmetryAnalysisKind.Corepresentation`: this specifies choice 3 of [Basics/Analysis options/#Magnetic groups](basics.md/#magnetic-groups) &mdash; use the irreducible corepresentations of the magnetic group $\mathcal{M}$, if $\mathcal{M}$ is available.
    </li>For more information, see [Basics/Analysis options/#Magnetic groups](basics.md/#magnetic-groups).
    22. :fontawesome-solid-users: This is a boolean specifying if double groups shall be used for symmetry analysis. The possible options are:
        - `False`: use only conventional irreducible representations or corepresentations of $\mathcal{G}$,
        - `True`: use projective irreducible representations or corepresentations of $\mathcal{G}$ obtainable via its double cover $\mathcal{G}^*$.
    </li>For more information, see [Basics/Analysis options/#Double groups](basics.md/#double-groups).
    23. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies the kind of symmetry transformations to be applied to generate the orbit for symmetry analysis.
    The possible options are:
        - `SymmetryTransformationKind.Spatial`: spatial transformation only,
        - `SymmetryTransformationKind.Spin`: spin transformation only,
        - `SymmetryTransformationKind.SpinSpatial`: coupled spin and spatial transformations.
    </li>For more information, see [Basics/Analysis options/#Transformation kinds](basics.md/#transformation-kinds).
    24. :fontawesome-solid-users: This specifies the finite order $n$ to which all infinite-order symmetry elements, if any, are restricted. The possible options are:
        - `None`: do not restrict infinite-order symmetry elements to finite order,
        - a positive integer value: restrict all infinite-order symmetry elements to this finite order (this will be ignored if the system has no infinite-order symmetry elements).
    </li>For more information, see [Basics/Analysis options/#Infinite-order symmetry elements](basics.md/#infinite-order-symmetry-elements).
    </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `None`.
    25. :fontawesome-solid-users: This boolean indicates if the *symbolic* character table of the prevailing symmetry group is to be printed in the output.
    </li></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `True`.
    29. :fontawesome-solid-users: This boolean indicates if the eigenspectrum of the overlap matrix for the Slater determinant orbit should be printed out.
    </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `True`.
    30. :fontawesome-solid-users: This boolean indicates if the constituting molecular orbitals (MOs) are also symmetry-analysed.
    </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `True`.
    31. :fontawesome-solid-users: This boolean indicates if MO mirror parities (*i.e.* parities w.r.t. any mirror planes present in the system) are to be analysed alongside MO symmetries.
    </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `False`.
    32. :fontawesome-solid-users: This boolean indicates if density symmetries are to be analysed alongside wavefunction symmetries. If `analyse_mo_symmetries` is set to `True`, then MO density symmetries are also analysed.
    </br></br>:material-cog-sync-outline: Default: `False`.
